Autotrigger controller (#3040)
knative/docs: docs/eventing/sugar/README.md

of the Trigger resource:

```shell
kubectl apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/injection: enabled
spec:
  broker: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```

This will make a Broker called "gumdrops" in the Namespace "candyland", and
attempt to send events to the "event-display" service.

If the Broker of the given name already exists in the Namespace, the Sugar
Controller will do nothing.

## Automatic Trigger Creation

The Sugar Controller can also watch for any resource that conforms to the duck
type "Addressable", see [the defintion](TODO: add a link for addressable
definition) or the [Discovery](TODO: link to the discovery documentation)
ClusterDuckType
[addressables.duck.knative.dev](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/discovery/blob/master/config/knative/addressables.duck.knative.dev.yaml).

For any addressable that is found, the Sugar Controller will react to resources
that have been labeled with the special label
`eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger=enabled`.

> To produce one or more triggers automatically, provide the annotation:

Author: I had 

```yaml
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{}]
```

But maybe that is the default? I could buy that.

> To produce one or more triggers automatically, provide the annotation:

Author: So the following would be equivalent: 

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
```

OR

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{}]
```

```
annotations:
  autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
    [{"type":"cloudevents.event.type", "custom-attribute":"match-value"}]
```

`autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes` is a JSON array of any map
of string to string. Any valid CloudEvents attribute name and value are allowed.
For each map in the array, a new Trigger will be created.

Triggers produced by the Sugar Controller automatically create owner-refs to the
original Addressable resource. When the labeled resource is deleted, the
triggers will also be deleted.

When the `autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes` is modified, the
Sugar Controller will attempt to realize the new config, which may result in
deleting the triggers created for the old configuration.

For resources that are owned by another Addressable resource, the Sugar
Controller will attempt to not duplicate triggers if the labels and annotations
were reflected down to the owned objects.

The default Broker is used unless the broker annotation is specified:

```

> annotations:

Author: I have added them to the top. Let me know if those help

  autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker: hello-sugar
```

> It is not supported to use more than one broker name with AutoTrigger.

Author: you just can't specify more than one broker name in the annotations.

The Sugar Controller uses the label to enable or disable the AutoTrigger
feature, and the annotations to provide the configuration. In this way, you are
able to enable/disable the feature without editing the configuration.

The Sugar Controller does not clean up Triggers if the
`eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger` label is removed, and Trigger filters will no
longer be updated.

### Simple AutoTrigger Example

When the following Knative Service is created:

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{}]
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <some image>
```

The Sugar Controller will notice AutoTrigger is enabled for that resource, and

> produce a trigger subscribing "hello-sugar" to the Knative Service, the cluster

Reviewer: s/produce/create/
subscribing "hello-sugar" Knative Service.
Or, I'm not sure what the "hello-sugar" to the Knative Service means.

will have a Trigger like:

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:

>   name: hello-sugar-abc123

Reviewer: I assume this comes from gen name? or how do you gen this name?

Author: I use the internal hash generator

  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
```

If filters are added to the Service,

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{"type":"gumdrops", "sticky":"yes"}]
```

A Trigger with filters will be replace the original:

```yaml
kind: Trigger
...
spec:
  ...
  filter:
    attributes:
      type: gumdrops
      sticky: "yes"
```

### Multiple Triggers Example

More than one Trigger could be configured in the filter annotaiton, when the
following Knative Service is created:

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |

>       [{"type":"gumdrops"}, {"subject":"lollipops"}]

Reviewer: Re-reading the above example, why does this gen two triggers, but the above only gens one? If I missed it reading, might want to bold it or something? :)

>       [{"type":"gumdrops"}, {"subject":"lollipops"}]

Author: The filter.attributes is an array of filter attribute objects so you are looking at:

`{"type":"gumdrops", "sticky":"yes"}`

vs

`{"type":"gumdrops"}` and  `{"subject":"lollipops"}`

so, it is `[{}]` vs `[{},{}]`

spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <some image>
```

Two Triggers will be created like:

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-abc123
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      type: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar

---
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-efg456
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      subject: lollipops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
```

### Broker Named Trigger Example

> More than one Trigger could be configured in the filter annotation, when the

Reviewer: Cut & Paste? I think should talk about targeting a different broker?

Create a Broker named by a Trigger (`spec.broker`) in the Trigger's Namespace:

```shell
kubectl apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/injection: enabled
spec:
  broker: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```

> _Note_: If the named Broker already exists, the Sugar controller will do
> nothing, and the Trigger will not own the existing Broker.

This will make a Broker called "gumdrops" in the Namespace "candyland", and
attempt to send events to the "event-display" service.

If the Broker of the given name already exists in the Namespace, the Sugar
Controller will do nothing.

## Automatic Trigger Creation

The Sugar Controller can also watch for any resource that conforms to the duck
type "Addressable", see [the defintion](TODO: add a link for addressable
definition) or the [Discovery](TODO: link to the discovery documentation)
ClusterDuckType
[addressables.duck.knative.dev](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/discovery/blob/master/config/knative/addressables.duck.knative.dev.yaml).

> For any addressable that has been labeled with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For any addressable resource that has been labeled with
```
Maybe "resource" - unless you meant broker or something else.

`eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger=enabled`, the Sugar Controller will manage the
Trigger(s) for it.

To manage one or more triggers automatically, provide the annotation:

```
annotations:
  autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
    [{"type":"cloudevents.event.type", "custom-attribute":"match-value"}]
```

`autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes` is a JSON array of any map
of string to string. Any valid CloudEvents attribute name and value are allowed.
For each map in the array, a new Trigger will be created. If this property is

> omitted, a Trigger with no filters will be created for the Addressable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
omitted, a Trigger with no filters will be created for the Addressable resource.
```
I don't know enough to know if Addressable is a resource type, or if it's supposed to still have "resource" after it. Added the suggestion to match "Addressable resource" as it shows up below in the same way.

Triggers produced by the Sugar Controller automatically create owner-refs to the
original Addressable resource. When the labeled resource is deleted, the
triggers will also be deleted.

When the `autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes` is modified, the
Sugar Controller will attempt to realize the new config, which may result in
deleting the triggers created for the old configuration.

For resources that are owned by another Addressable resource, the Sugar
Controller will attempt to not duplicate triggers if the labels and annotations
were reflected down to the owned objects.

The default Broker is used unless the broker annotation is specified:

```
annotations:
  autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker: hello-sugar
```

> It is not supported to use more than one broker name with AutoTrigger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using more than one broker name with AutoTrigger is not supported. 
```
Not sure if it means "named AutoTrigger" or if it means you cannot use multiple broker names.

The Sugar Controller uses the label to enable or disable the AutoTrigger
feature, and the annotations to provide the configuration. In this way, you are
able to enable/disable the feature without editing the configuration.

The Sugar Controller does not clean up Triggers if the

> `eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger` label is removed, and Trigger filters will no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger` label is removed, and the Trigger filters will no
```

longer be updated.

### Simple AutoTrigger Example

When the following Knative Service is created:

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <some image>
```

> The Sugar Controller will notice AutoTrigger is enabled for that resource, and
> create a trigger subscribing the Knative Service "hello-sugar" to all events
> send to the "default" Broker, the cluster will have a Trigger like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Sugar Controller will notice AutoTrigger is enabled for that resource. It will
create a trigger subscribing the Knative Service "hello-sugar" to all events
sent to the "default" Broker. The Trigger will resemble the example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-abc123
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
```

If filters are added to the Service,

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{"type":"gumdrops", "sticky":"yes"}]
```

> A Trigger with filters will be replace the original:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Trigger with filters will replace the original:
```

apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    trigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{"type":"gumdrops"}, {"subject":"lollipops"}]
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <some image>
```

Two Triggers will be created like:

```yaml
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-abc123
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      type: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar

---
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-efg456
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      subject: lollipops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
```

### Broker Named Trigger Example

> Using the `autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker` annotation, the Addressable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker` annotation, the Addressable resource
```
Not sure on the addition of resource, if "Addressable" is a resource type then we can ignore adding "resource"

kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  annotations:
    eventing.knative.dev/injection: enabled
spec:
  broker: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: event-display
EOF
```

> _Note_: If the named Broker already exists, the Sugar controller will do
> nothing, and the Trigger will not own the existing Broker.

This will make a Broker called "gumdrops" in the Namespace "candyland", and
attempt to send events to the "event-display" service.

If the Broker of the given name already exists in the Namespace, the Sugar
Controller will do nothing.

## Automatic Trigger Creation

The Sugar Controller can also watch for any resource that conforms to the duck
type "Addressable", see [the definition](TODO: add a link for Addressable
definition) or the [Discovery](TODO: link to the discovery documentation)
ClusterDuckType
[addressables.duck.knative.dev](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/discovery/blob/master/config/knative/addressables.duck.knative.dev.yaml).

For any Addressable resource that has been labeled with
`eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger=enabled`, the Sugar Controller will manage the

> Trigger(s) for it.

Reviewer 3: Can this feature be combined with trigger-specified auto-broker creation? Such that the auto-created trigger also creates its broker?

Author: At the moment no. But I think that is an interesting idea so let me work it in.

Author: https://github.com/knative/docs/pull/3040/files#diff-a5afdc5012c7e77bf6fb45370fa61c4547612113c1aac0b1a8bf37500ae94f5fR369

  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      type: gumdrops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar

---
apiVersion: eventing.knative.dev/v1
kind: Trigger
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar-efg456
  namespace: candyland
  ownerReferences:
    - apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
spec:
  broker: default
  filter:
    attributes:
      subject: lollipops
  subscriber:
    ref:
      apiVersion: v1
      kind: Service
      name: hello-sugar
```

### Broker Named Trigger Example

Using the `autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker` annotation, the Addressable
resource can control which Broker name is used in the spec of the managed
Trigger (spec.broker), when the following Knative Service is created:

```yaml
apiVersion: serving.knative.dev/v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: hello-sugar
  namespace: candyland
  labels:
    eventing.knative.dev/autotrigger: enabled
  annotations:
    autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker: gloppy
    autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/filter.attributes: |
      [{"type":"gumdrops"}]
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: <some image>
```

> A Trigger using the Broker name of "gloppy" will be created like:

Reviewer 4: @n3wscott this example and use case is great to have a knative service or any addresable be able to create the trigger with a broker named, but I this scenario how can I get the broker `gloppy` created? I would think would be something to add that will add the annotation to the triggers created?
```
annotation:
  autotrigger.eventing.knative.dev/broker: gloppy
```

I can't create the broker `gloppy` because namespace annotation doesn't allow me to name the broker is always named `default`

Author: Ok, second time this has been requested...

Author: How do you feel about https://github.com/knative/docs/pull/3040/files#diff-a5afdc5012c7e77bf6fb45370fa61c4547612113c1aac0b1a8bf37500ae94f5fR369

Reviewer 4: Nice that makes a full example. 👍 

My guess is the the service is the owner/parent  ref of the trigger created and the trigger is the owner/parent ref of the broker. 
So deleting the service starts the cascading effect ?
